Glossary
​
​pre-trained model	
An AI model that has already been trained on a large, general dataset and can be reused or fine‑tuned for specific tasks

A
access control	
The process of determining and assigning privileges to resources, objects, and data. Each resource has an access control list (ACL) specifying what subjects (users and hosts) can do.

accountability	
Data governance plans are being followed and there are accountability measures in place

accountability-AI	
An AI principle of who is responsible for decisions and the AI systems that support them at an organizational and individual level

accounting	
Tracking authorized usage of a resource or use of rights by a subject and alerting when unauthorized use is detected or attempted.

advanced persistent threat	
An attacker's ability to obtain, maintain, and diversify access to network systems using exploits and malware.

AI architect	
A role that outlines how AI components fit together within an organization, choosing patterns for data flows, model serving, and integration with existing systems

AI auditor	
A role that provides independent assurance and verification that approvals, monitoring, and incident handling adhere to policy

AI Center of Excellence	
A cross-functional team in an organization that serves as the hub for safe and effective AI implementation and support

AI governance engineer	
A role that integrates policy into daily operations by codifying approval workflows, managing deployment risks, automatically collecting required evidence, and enforcing retention and audit requirements

AI Incident Database	
A collection of AI incidents reported in real time

AI policy	
A written document that states what is allowed, what evidence is needed (to support audits), and who is authorized to make decisions related to AI use

AI procedure	
Who does what, when, and with what evidence across the AI lifecycle to put the AI policy into practice

AI risk analyst	
A role that assesses use cases and systems based on legal, ethical, and business risk criteria, recommends mitigations, and tracks key indicators

AI Supply Chain Attack	
A security attack where an attacker compromises one or more components used to build, train, deploy, or operate an AI system so that the final AI system is corrupted, backdoored, or behaves maliciously

AI threat modeling	
The process of identifying potential threats and analyzing the risks in AI systems

AI Vulnerability Database	
An open-source knowledge base that collects the data about failures modes for AI models, datasets, and systems

anomaly detection	
The process of evaluating traffic flows and communications across the network and comparing the current activity levels with baselines of normal activity

application programming interface	
Methods exposed by a script or program that allow other scripts or programs to use it. For example, an API enables software developers to access functions of the TCP/IP network stack under a particular operating system.

artificial intelligence	
The science of creating machines with the ability to develop problem-solving and analysis strategies without significant human direction or intervention.

arXiV	
An open-source platform where researchers share scientific papers

attribute-based access control	
An access control technique that evaluates a set of attributes that each subject possesses to determine if access should be granted.

authentication	
A method of validating a particular entity's or individual's unique credentials.

authorization	
The process of determining what rights and privileges a particular entity has.

autoencoder	
Small neural networks trained to recreate the records they see during learning

automated data correlation	
The process where an AI system automatically detects and links relationships, patterns, or associations between different data points or data sources without manual analysis so it can combine them into meaningful insights, predictions, or alerts

automation	
Use of scripts and APIs to provision and deprovision systems without manual intervention.

B
backdoor attack	
A cyberattack where an attacker exploits or installs a hidden method of bypassing normal authentication or security controls in a system, application, or device, allowing unauthorized remote access and control without being detected by standard defenses.

bilingual evaluation understudy	
An automatic metric for evaluating machine‑translated text by comparing it to one or more human-created reference translations by measuring how many matching word sequences (n‑grams) the system output shares with the references

brute force attack	
A type of password attack where an attacker uses an application to exhaustively try every possible alphanumeric combination to crack encrypted passwords.

C
central processing unit	
Principal microprocessor in a PC or mobile device responsible for running firmware, operating system, and applications software.

chain of custody	
Record of handling evidence from collection to presentation in court to disposal.

change control system	
A collection of formal, documented procedures for changing official project documents and how project deliverables will be controlled, changed, and approved.

chatbot	
A software application that uses AI to understand user messages and generate conversational responses, allowing people to interact with systems or services through natural, human‑like dialogue.

CIA Triad	
Three principles of security control and management. Also known as the information security triad. Also referred to in reverse order as the AIC triad.

code linting	
A process where an AI tool provides recommendations for errors, bugs, and inconsistencies within code

code quality tool	
A software tool that automatically analyzes source code used to build or integrate AI systems to detect bugs, security vulnerabilities, style violations, inefficiencies, and maintainability issues, helping developers improve the reliability and safety of code

command-line interface	
A text-based interface between the user and the operating system that accepts input in the form of commands.

Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures	
A scheme for identifying vulnerabilities developed by MITRE and adopted by NIST.

Common Weakness Enumeration	
A community-developed list and classification system for common software and hardware security flaws (weaknesses) that can lead to vulnerabilities.

consistency	
An AI principle that AI system operates reliably in real-world applications, minimizing erratic behavior and maintaining ethical standards

context-aware authentication	
An access control scheme that verifies an object's identity based on various environmental factors, like time, location, and behavior.

continuous integration/continuous deployment	
A software development method combining app and platform updates (rapidly committed to production) with code updates (rapidly committed to a code repository or build server).

convolutional neural network	
A deep learning method designed to process and analyze visual data by mimicking the way the human brain processes images; especially effective for tasks involving image recognition, object detection, and other image processing analyses.

cost-benefit analysis	
A decision-making tool used in projects and procurement that compares the cost of a solution against the financial benefit it will provide to determine if it is a sound investment.

counterfactual testing	
A method of evaluating an AI model by changing one or more input features in a small, targeted way and checking how the model's output changes, to assess fairness, robustness, and causal behavior

cryptographic watermark	
Hidden markers or codes added to the model's output that are difficult to forge or remove

D
data access	
Control of which data a user or entity within the AI system has access to

data anonymization	
The process of removing personally identifiable information from data sets, so that the individuals the data describes remain anonymous.

data augmentation	
A process of generating additional, artificial data that is similar to existing data, primarily for the purpose of training machine learning models and also often for use in computer vision processes.

data balancing	
A technique used to realign a training set so that rare, yet critical events receive proportionate attention

data breach	
When confidential or private data is read, copied, or changed without authorization. Data breach events may have notification and reporting requirements.

data cleaning	
The process of ensuring that the data used in analysis is of a high-enough quality that it gives decision makers confidence in findings and the practice of transforming non-conforming data into acceptable shape.

data drift	
A phenomenon where the statistical properties of input data change over time, potentially reducing the accuracy and reliability of machine learning models or analytical systems.

data engineer	
A role responsible for building and maintaining the pipelines that acquire, clean, label, and deliver data with appropriate quality controls

data governance	
The overall management of the availability, usability, and security of the information used in an organization.

data in transit	
Information that is being transmitted between two hosts, such as over a private network or the Internet. Also referred to as "data in motion."

data in use	
Information that is present in the volatile memory of a host, such as system memory or cache.

data integrity	
To safeguard the trustworthiness and accuracy of data throughout its lifecycle

data lineage	
A record of the origin, movement, and transformation of data as it flows through systems and processes.

data loss/leak prevention	
A software solution that detects and prevents sensitive information from being stored on unauthorized systems or transmitted over unauthorized networks. Also known as "DLP."

data masking	
A de-identification method where generic or placeholder labels are substituted for real data while preserving the structure or format of the original data. Also known as data obfuscation.

data minimization	
In data protection, the principle that only necessary and sufficient personal information can be collected and processed for the stated purpose.

data poisoning	
When misinformation or malicious data is used in the training dataset, causing bias and changes in behavior

data processing	
The set of steps used to collect, clean, transform, and organize raw data into a structured, usable form

data profiling	
Determining the volume of data, the types of data and quality of the data.

data provenance	
A record of the origin, history, and transformations of data

data redaction	
The process of removing, obscuring, or masking data that is not necessary after collection

data scientist	
A role that explores data to define a problem, select relevant features, and develop baseline models that demonstrate value

data storage	
The hardware and software systems used to save, organize, and manage the data needed for training, validating, deploying, and operating AI models, including datasets, model parameters, logs, and related metadata

data verification	
The process of confirming that the data is accurate or true.

deduplication	
A technique for removing duplicate copies of repeated data. In SIEM, the removal of redundant information provided by several monitored systems.

deep fake	
The use of artificial intelligence and machine learning to generate a highly-realistic video of a person. A fake video rendered using deep learning.

deep learning	
A refinement of machine learning that enables a machine to develop strategies for solving a task given a labeled dataset and without further explicit instructions.

denial of service	
The preventing clients from connecting to a legitimate access point

denial of service attack	
Any type of physical, application, or network attack that affects the availability of a managed resource.

DevSecOps	
A combination of software development, security operations, and systems operations, and refers to the practice of integrating each discipline with the others.

differentially private stochastic gradient descent	
A method used for machine learning data encryption to protect data privacy of the data endpoints by calculating a gradient of the training data and limiting it to ensure a single data point in the data set is not being used to dominate the training process

disinformation	
A type of attack that falsifies an information resource that is normally trusted by others.

distributed denial of service attack	
An attack that uses multiple compromised hosts (a botnet) to overwhelm a service with requests or response traffic.

due diligence	
A legal principle that a subject has used best practice or reasonable care when setting up, configuring, and maintaining a system.

dynamic application security testing	
Testing that is done after code is placed into production and is able to unearth vulnerabilities that are evident once the code is in production.

E
edge case	
A rare, unusual, or extreme input or situation that lies at the boundary of what the AI model was trained on or usually encounters, and which often causes the model to behave unpredictably or unreliably

embeddings	
Numerical representations of real-world entites utilized by machine learning and artificial intelligence systems to comprehend intricate knowledge domains akin to human cognition.

encryption	
Scrambling the characters used in a message so that the message can be seen but not understood or modified unless it can be deciphered. Encryption provides for a secure means of transmitting data and authenticating users. It is also used to store data securely. Encryption uses different types of cipher and one or more keys. The size of the key is one factor in determining the strength of the encryption product.

endpoint detection and response	
A software agent that collects system data and logs for analysis by a monitoring system to provide early detection of threats.

EU AI Act	
A law that applies to all European Union Member States and establishes a risk-based framework; the law imposes strict controls on "high-risk" AI applications and prohibits "unacceptable-risk" uses of AI

explainability	
An AI principle of the extent to which stakeholders can understand the reasoning behind a system's output

F
fairness	
An AI principle that means outcomes should not disadvantage individuals based on protected or irrelevant characteristics

false positive	
In security scanning, a case that is reported when it should not be.

federated learning	
A machine learning approach where a central model is trained collaboratively across many decentralized devices or servers using their local data, so the raw data never leaves the devices—only model updates (like gradients or parameters) are shared and aggregated to improve the global model while enhancing privacy.

fine tuning	
Training a neural network model with a smaller dataset tailored for a specific task

fingerprint	
Mobile-device bio-gesture authentication mechanism that requires the user to scan his or her fingerprint to unlock the device.

fingerprint_ai	
Hidden identifiers that are embedded into content, that assist in detecting unauthorized use/copying and provide a trail to trace the modification back to a specific device or user.

G
gateway control	
The controls between the user interface and the AI models used to enforce usage rules, prevent abuse, and ensure compliance.

General Data Protection Regulation	
Provisions and requirements protecting the personal data of European Union (EU) citizens. Transfers of personal data outside the EU Single Market are restricted unless protected by like-for-like regulations, such as the US's Privacy Shield requirements.

generative adversarial network	
A type of artificial intelligence model in which two neural networks compete against each other to generate realistic synthetic data, such as images or text.

generative AI	
A class of artificial intelligence models designed to generate novel data (such as text, images, audio, or code) by learning patterns from existing data sets.

gl-​unsanctioned ai	
Any AI tools that adopt by an individual independently without organizational approval

Governance, Risk, and Compliance	
The process where an AI system automatically detects and links relationships, patterns, or associations between different data points or data sources—without manual analysis—to combine them into meaningful insights, predictions, or alerts.

grounding check	
A verification step that tests whether the AI model's outputs are correctly supported by specified sources or evidence (such as documents, databases, or the input data itself).

guardrail	
The controls in AI systems that enforce ethical, safe, and responsible usage of AI.

guardrail testing	
The process of systematically testing an AI system against safety, security, and policy rules (guardrails) to ensure it blocks or modifies harmful, disallowed, or out‑of‑scope requests and responses before deployment and during operation.

guardrails	
Software development tools that ensure automation and scripting comply with established policies, standards, and best practices.

H
hardware security module	
An appliance for generating and storing cryptographic keys. This sort of solution may be less susceptible to tampering and insider threats than software-based storage.

homomorphic encryption	
Method that allows computation of certain fields in a dataset without decrypting it.

honeypot	
A host (honeypot), network (honeynet), file (honeyfile), or credential/token (honeytoken) set up with the purpose of luring attackers away from assets of actual value and/or discovering attack strategies and weaknesses in the security configuration.

human-in-the-loop	
Allowing humans to interview and approve or override decisions in AI systems.

HyperText Transfer Protocol/HTTP Secure	
Application protocol used to provide web content to browsers. HTTP uses port 80. HTTPS(ecure) provides for encrypted transfers, using TLS and port 443.

I
identification	
The process by which a user account (and its credentials) is issued to the correct person. Sometimes referred to as enrollment.

identity and access management	
A security process that provides identification, authentication, and authorization mechanisms for users, computers, and other entities to work with organizational assets like networks, operating systems, and applications. Also referred to as identity management (IdM), and access management.

impersonation	
Social engineering attack where an attacker pretends to be someone they are not.

improper output handling	
When generated responses are used directly in applications without verification

incident response plan	
Specific procedures that must be performed if a certain type of event is detected or reported.

inclusiveness	
An AI principle of designing, developing, and deploying AI systems that serve diverse populations equitably, ensuring accessibility, fairness, and representation across all user groups

infrastructure as code	
Provisioning architecture in which deployment of resources is performed by scripted automation and orchestration.

input manipulation	
When an attacker crafts a malicious input to exploit the model's behavior

input quota	
The maximum amount of data or the maximum number of requests a user or application can send to an AI system within a time frame

input validation	
Any technique used to ensure that the data entered into a field or variable in an application is handled appropriately by that application.

integrated development environment	
A software application that provides comprehensive tools and features to facilitate computer programming and software development.

intellectual property	
Data that is of commercial value and can be granted rights of ownership, such as copyrights, patents, and trademarks.

intrusion detection system	
A security appliance or software that analyzes data from a packet sniffer to identify traffic that violates policies or rules. Also called a network intrusion detection system (NIDS).

ISO/IEC 42001:2023	
An ISO standard that specifies the requirements for an AI Management System (AIMS) covering policy, roles, risk management, lifecycle controls, and continuous improvement

J
jailbreak	
Removes the protective seal and any OS-specific restrictions to give users greater control over the device.

K
key management system	
In PKI, procedures and tools that centralizes generation and storage of cryptographic keys.

key performance indicator	
Metrics generally used to evaluate factors crucial to the success of a project or organization. In project management, a KPI consists of tools that indicate if the project is meeting specific goals. The best practice is to define KPIs early in the project; they should be quantifiable and measured regularly. Common KPIs relate to how well the project is tracking against the planned schedule and cost baselines and if project milestones are being met.

L
large language model	
An advanced artificial intelligence model trained on vast amounts of text data to understand, generate, and analyze human language for tasks such as summarization, content generation, and natural language querying

least privilege	
A basic principle of security stating that something should be allocated the minimum necessary rights, privileges, or information to perform its role. Also referred to as the principle of least privilege.

log monitoring	
The continuous collection, review, and analysis of system and application logs that record an AI model's inputs, outputs, and errors so that issues can be detected, investigated, and corrected

log scrubbing	
A process that removes, hides, or encrypts confidential data in log files.

low-code	
When an AI system is used to accelerate the code development but a human may be involved in the writing of some code

M
machine learning	
A component of AI that enables a machine to develop strategies for solving a task given a labeled dataset where features have been manually identified but without further explicit instructions.

machine learning engineer	
A role that takes prototypes and transforms them into production-grade models by optimizing the code, packaging dependencies, writing inference services, and designing evaluation tests that can withstand traffic

malware	
Software that serves a malicious purpose, typically installed without the user's consent (or knowledge).

Massachusetts Institute of Technology AI Risk Repository	
A collection of AI risks classified by frameworks and seven domains

membership inference	
A security attack where an attacker gains access for sensitive information when the history is saved and used for training the model

misinformation	
Repeating false claims or rumors without the intention to deceive

MITRE Adversarial Threat Landscape for Artificial-Intelligence Systems	
A globally accessible framework developed to understand the various techniques and tactics adversaries use to attack AI and machine learning systems

MITRE Common Vulnerability and Exposures (CVE) Database	
A publicly available catalog of known cybersecurity vulnerabilities, where each vulnerability is assigned a unique CVE ID and brief description so that organizations, tools, and security professionals can consistently identify, track, and share information about specific security flaws.

MLOps engineer	
A role that automates the lifecycle on the platform by establishing continuous integration and delivery for AI models and prompts, managing versioning and lineage, orchestrating retraining workflows, and setting up monitoring

modality limit	
Controlling which type of input and output a model can handle

model access	
The ability to interact, use, or control an AI model

model bias	
An error that can be introduced when approximating a real-world problem with a simplified model or a dataset that does not include all relevant factors to make accurate predictions.

model context protocol	
AI systems, agents, and tools to share data about memory, goals, and intermediate results, enabling multi-agent systems, orchestration frameworks, or AI assistants to coordinate seamlessly

model control	
The security controls applied to an AI model to manage its behavior, security, and compliance

model drift	
A phenomenon wherein the statistical properties of the target variable or features of a machine learning model change over time, leading to a reduction in model performance.

model inversion attack	
A security attack where an attacker trains the model with a specific set of records and uses it to inquire the data used to train the model

model poisoning	
A security attack where harmful data or code is intentionally added during the model's training or fine-tuning process

model skewing	
When the behavior of a machine learning model is altered through biased or manipulated training or feedback data

model testing	
A process for ensuring the most appropriate model is used for each task, the program handles the input correctly, and the output is in line with what was expected

model theft	
A security attack where an attacker reverse engineers the organization's machine learning model to gain access to training data and the algorithm

model validation	
The process of testing a trained AI model on previously unseen data to evaluate how well it generalizes (accuracy, fairness, robustness, etc.) and to confirm that it meets the requirements before deployment

multi-shot prompting	
An AI prompting technique where several example input‑output pairs are provided in the prompt before the real query so the model can infer the desired pattern, style, or task from those multiple examples and apply it to the new input

multifactor authentication	
An authentication scheme that requires the user to present at least two different factors as credentials; for example, something you know, something you have, something you are, something you do, and somewhere you are. Specifying two factors is known as "2FA."

N
National Institute of Standards and Technology	
A nonregulatory government agency that develops computer security standards used by US federal agencies and publishes best practice guides and research.

natural language processing	
The use of statistical techniques, modeling, and machine learning tools by computers to process text-based datasets and understand human language.

NIST AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF)	
A voluntary, structured guideline created to help organizations understand, evaluate, and manage risks associated with artificial intelligence systems

NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD)	
A US government–maintained, publicly accessible repository of standardized information about known cybersecurity vulnerabilities, built on the MITRE CVE list and enriched with severity scores, impact metrics, and other security data to help organizations assess and manage vulnerability risk

no-code	
When a tool or platform is able to produce code output with no human involvement in writing of the code

O
obfuscation	
A technique that essentially "hides" or "camouflages" code or other information so that it is harder to read by unauthorized users.

one-shot prompting	
An AI prompting technique where one example input‑output pair is included in the prompt before the real query so the model can learn the desired format or behavior from that example and apply it to the new request

open authorization	
A standard for federated identity management, allowing resource servers or consumer sites to work with user accounts created and managed on a separate identity provider.

Open Web Application Security Project	
A charity and community publishing a number of secure application development resources.

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development	
An international organization that develops and promotes common principles, guidelines, and policy standards for trustworthy and responsible AI use

Output Integrity Attack	
A security attack where the attacker changes or interferes with the final output of a machine learning model

overreliance	
When human practitioners lose critical thinking capabilities and become overly dependent on AI recommendations

P
pattern detection	
The process of automatically finding recurring structures, trends, or regularities in data (such as similarities, sequences, or anomalies) so the model can recognize, classify, or predict based on those learned patterns

payload	
The code implemented within the message body that carries the actual intended content or action

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard	
The information security standard for organizations that process credit or bank card payments.

performance monitoring	
Tracking the number of requests and responses being submitted and supplied by the system to improve the model

personal assistant	
An AI‑powered application that helps an individual manage tasks and information—such as scheduling, reminders, messages, searches, and simple actions—by understanding natural‑language requests and automating routine activities on their behalf

personally identifiable information	
Data that can be used to identify or contact an individual (or, in the case of identity theft, to impersonate them).

platform engineer	
A role that provides the shared infrastructure that teams use to experiment and deploy safely programs

playbook	
A checklist of actions to perform to detect and respond to a specific type of incident.

plugins	
Additions that help tailor the software product to more closely match the infrastructure being managed from one organization to another.

policy as code	
The policy is defined, enforced, and managed using programming code rather than manual procedures

privacy	
An AI principle that AI systems collect, use, share, and store personal data in a way that minimizes data collection, protects individuals' identities and sensitive information, and complies with laws and user expectations

private model	
AI models deployed in a logically isolated environment

prompt compression	
The reduction of the complexity of a prompt while preserving its meaning and required information in order to reduce cost in a token-limited environment

prompt engineering	
The disciplined practice of directing large‑language models through clear and precise instructions

prompt firewall	
A security layer within an AI gateway that inspects and filters inputs to and the outputs generated by the model

prompt monitoring	
The ongoing tracking and analysis of the prompts (inputs) sent to an AI system—along with the model's responses—to detect misuse, policy violations, security risks, performance issues, or drift in how the system is being used

prompt template	
The predefined structures used to format user queries or system instructions before they are processed by an AI model

prompt-injection attack	
Manipulating inputs sent to LLM to change the behavior of the LLM or cause it to leak information

protected/personal health information	
Information that identifies someone as the subject of medical and insurance records, plus associated hospital and laboratory test results.

pruning	
Removing less important elements of the model that have negligible impact on performance

public model	
AI models accessed as cloud services that are shared among multiple customers

Q
quantity quota	
The maximum number of files, documents, or data items that a user or application can upload or process within a specified time frame

R
rate limitation	
The maximum number of requests that can be made to an AI model within a given time window

rate limiting	
An approach that protects the attack from consuming all available bandwidth and impacting other servers and services on the network. It reduces the amount of throughput available to the server or service being attacked.

recall-oriented understudy for gisting evaluations	
A set of metrics for evaluating how good a system‑generated summary or text is by comparing it to one or more human (reference) summaries, with a focus on how much of the reference content is included

reconnaissance	
The actions taken to gather information about an individual or organization's computer systems and software. This typically involves collecting information such as the types of systems and software used, user account information, data types, and network configuration.

regression testing	
The process of testing an application after changes are made to see if these changes have triggered problems in older areas of code.

reinforcement learning	
A type of machine learning that uses trial and error to make improved decisions by iterating through possible solutions to maximize rewards or avoid penalties.

retrieval-augmented generation	
A technique where a generative model retrieves relevant information from an external knowledge source and then uses that to generate its answer

reverse engineering	
The process of analyzing the structure of hardware or software to reveal more about how it functions.

risk	
Likelihood and impact (or consequence) of a threat actor exercising a vulnerability.

role-based access control	
An access control model where resources are protected by ACLs that are managed by administrators and that provide user permissions based on job functions.

rollback	
To restore a system to the last known good state.

S
sanctioned AI	
AI tools and workflows that have been vetted and approved by an organization and meet security and privacy requirements

Secure Software Development Life Cycle	
A method of system development that incorporates security controls in every phase of the system's lifecycle.

security information and event management	
A solution that provides real-time or near-real-time analysis of security alerts generated by network hardware and applications.

security operations center	
The location where security professionals monitor and protect critical information assets in an organization.

security orchestration, automation, and response	
A class of security tools that facilitates incident response, threat hunting, and security configuration by orchestrating automated runbooks and delivering data enrichment.

semi-structured data	
Data that is a mix of both structured and non-structured data.

sensitive information disclosure	
When the model unintentionally reveals private or proprietary data

service level agreement	
Operating procedures and standards for a service contract.

signature matching	
A technique in which predefined patterns are used to identify malicious activity.

small language model	
A language model with a relatively low number of parameters and computational requirements, designed to run efficiently on limited hardware (such as edge devices or small servers) while performing focused language tasks

social engineering	
Using persuasion, manipulation, or intimidation to make the victim violate a security policy. The goal of social engineering might be to gain access to an account, gain access to physical premises, or gather information.

social impact	
An AI principle that AI systems should be designed, developed, and used in ways that produce beneficial effects for individuals and society, while identifying, minimizing, and managing negative consequences

software bill of materials	
Inventory of third-party and open-source code components used in an application or package.

software composition analysis	
Tools designed to assist with identification of third-party and open-source code during software development and deployment.

source grounding	
The technique of connecting an AI model's outputs to specific, retrieved, and verifiable external information sources, and constraining the model to use those sources when generating its responses

spoofing, tampering, repudiation, information disclosure, DoS, and elevation of privilege	
Threat model developed by Microsoft.

static application security testing	
Testing that is done early in the software development life cycle to examine the code for security vulnerabilities.

statistical learning	
Developing mathematical models to explain and predict data behavior

structured data	
Data that is organized and stored in tables, in rows and columns.

structured query language injection	
An attack that injects a database query into the input data directed at a server by accessing the client side of the application.

supervised learning	
A category of machine learning that uses labeled data when training algorithms to predict outcomes.

sustainability	
An AI principle that examines how efficiently resources are used and the broader effects of those usages

System and Organization Controls 2	
An independent audit standard that evaluates how well a service organization designs and operates controls to protect customer data, focusing on security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, and privacy.

system prompt	
The background instructions in an AI system that define the model's behavior, tone, or restrictions

system role	
A compact statement that defines the model's persona

T
tactics, techniques, and procedures	
Analysis of historical cyberattacks and adversary actions.

technical guardrail	
A control that enforces compliance with AI governance in day-to-day operations

third-party compliance evaluation	
Reviews by an independent organization that assess whether an organization's systems, processes, and models meet specific legal, policy, safety, or industry requirements

throttling	
Technology that allows the CPU to slow down if thermal output reaches a critical level or to improve power performance. Intel's throttling technology is called SpeedStep; AMD's is called PowerNow!

token limit	
The maximum number of tokens an AI model can process in a single request

transfer learning attack	
A security attack where an attacker exploits pre-trained models with inherited vulnerabilities utilized for fine-tuning

transformer	
A neural network architecture that excels at processing and analyzing sequences of data by focusing on the connections between different pieces of information in a sequence

transparency	
Everyone in the organization has access to the governance policies and understands why they are in place.

Transport Layer Security	
A security protocol that uses certificates for authentication and encryption that provides end-to-end security to protect web communications and other application protocols.

trojan attack	
A cyberattack that uses a malicious program disguised as legitimate software to trick users into installing it, after which it can create backdoors, steal data, download additional malware, or give attackers control of the compromised system.

trusted execution environment	
A secure area of a processor that runs code and handles data in isolation from the rest of the system

trusted platform module	
Specification for secure hardware-based storage of encryption keys, hashed passwords, and other user- and platform-identification information.

U
unit test	
The developer writes a simple "pass/no pass" test for code. This ensures that a particular block of code performs the exact action intended, and provides the exact output expected.

unstructured data	
Data that are not able to be stored in columns and rows, such as audio and video signals, large bodies of text, and webpages.

unsupervised learning	
A category of machine learning that does not use labeled data to predict outcomes, but instead relies on the computer to sort out patterns and similarities in the larger dataset.

user and entity behavior analytics	
A system that can provide automated identification of suspicious activity by user accounts and computer hosts.

user prompt	
The instructions, questions, or examples a user enters into an AI system to specify what task it should perform and how it should respond

V
vector storage	
A lookup table that turns pieces of text into numeric fingerprints

W
watermark	
Information displayed as an overlay on a report indicating content is confidential or should not be printed or distributed.

watermarking	
In data protection, methods and technologies that apply a unique anti-tamper signature or message to a copy of a document.

Z
zero-shot prompting	
An AI prompting technique where the model is asked to perform a task with no prior examples in the prompt, only an instruction or description, relying entirely on its pretrained knowledge to infer how to complete the task